Add Bitcoin integration blog post (#141)
itchysats/10101: docs/stories/bitcoin-integration.md

Since we only started building 10101 a few weeks ago, we had to define a realistic but ambitious scope for our [Legends of Lightning](https://makers.bolt.fun/project/10101) [project](https://makers.bolt.fun/project/10101).
My teammate [holzeis](https://makers.bolt.fun/profile/408/holzeis) already shed some light on what that means for the UX and frontend in [his post on user journeys](https://makers.bolt.fun/story/your-lightning-powered-journey-to-non-custodial-cfd-trading--268).
And I will now address what we are doing in the guts of the application.

## Expanding the capabilities of Lightning

You already know that Lightning's killer feature is the ability to make quick payments using Bitcoin.
Instead of having to wait for a transaction to be mined every time coins are transferred, Lightning nodes collaborate to build off-chain state which is unilaterally enforceable by all parties involved.
After a series of Lightning payments between two parties, either one can effectively cash out and move the state on-chain.

Payments are a basic building block of any wallet, but 10101 wants to do more.

> For the tournament, we want to offer Contract for difference (CFD) trading _on Lightning_.

Reviewer: nit: 
```suggestion
For the tournament, we want to offer Contract for Difference (CFD) trading _on Lightning_.
```

Reviewer: or 
```suggestion
For the tournament, we want to offer contract for difference (CFD) trading _on Lightning_.
```

We saw this library as an excellent fit because it is written in our preferred language and it has already been used to build Lightning wallets for mobile.
With all this in mind, our plan involves extending `rust-lightning` to support DLCs.

### Adding _custom outputs_ to a commitment transaction

Because the DLC protocol involves a few things that are completely orthogonal to Lightning (interacting with an oracle, generating many CETs), we decided to reframe the goal from "adding DLCs to Lightning" to "adding _custom outputs_ to Lightning".
The motivation here is to be able to minimise the changes that we need to make to `rust-lightning`.
Effectively, the library will not need to understand the DLC protocol.
It will just need to support the creation of outputs with _arbitrary scripts_.

By default, a Lightning commitment transaction can contain:

- Simple outputs that pay directly to Alice or Bob.
- Revocable outputs that pay to Alice or Bob after a timelock expires.
- Revocable HTLCs to route payments.

This means that a Lightning commitment transaction expects its outputs to be of a particular kind.

> With our extensions, the commitment transaction should be able to host a new kind of _revocable_ output with arbitrary spend conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With our extensions, the commitment transaction is able to host a new kind of _revocable_ output with arbitrary spend conditions.
```

In our current design, the arbitrary spend conditions are external to the library and Lightning is oblivious to them; but the output should be revocable using the same mechanism and keys that are used for the other outputs in the transaction.

![](../assets/add-custom-output-ln-protocol.png)

Contrary to the other types of output, the coins that make up the new custom output can come from _both_ parties.
This is a necessary requirement for DLCs and other interesting protocols, where both parties lock up coins in a shared output.

> The 10101 wallet application that uses will therefore have to handle all the DLC-specific transaction building and signing, using the shared custom output as the DLC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 10101 wallet application will therefore have to handle all the DLC-specific transaction building and signing, using the shared custom output as the DLC.
```

This means that the off-chain state doesn't have to be committed on-chain and that the coins are readily available to make payments or do whatever else 10101 lets you do in the future.

![](../assets/remove-custom-output-ln-protocol.png)

This protocol is analogous to how a HTLC would be removed from a commitment transaction after a payment is claimed.
Except for the fact that the coins in the custom output can be _split up_ between the two parties.

### Force closing a channel containing a custom output

There should not be anything inherently different about force closing a Lightning channel containing a custom output.
The commitment transaction will be published on-chain and all the outputs will have different spend conditions.

The effect on the custom output will be different, as the `rust-lightning` library will not ensure that the output is split among the two parties Bitcoin wallets.
It will be the responsibility of the application built on top of `rust-lightning` to spend the custom output.
For the 10101 wallet that will mean publishing a CET according to what the oracle attests.

> If you want to learn more about how a CFD protocol using DLCs works in the context of ItchySats, earlier in the year we wrote a [blog post](https://comit.network/blog/2022/01/11/cfd-protocol-explained/) about it.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful if that reference is added somewhere in the beginning (introduction). Here it breaks the flow if I would jump to the blog post 🙈

Reviewer 2: I think it does need a mention here as well, because it is related here, but maybe we don't need a separate sentence for it? I tried to just link it in the sentence above but could not find a good way to do so.

> If you want to learn more about how a CFD protocol using DLCs works in the context of ItchySats, earlier in the year we wrote a [blog post](https://comit.network/blog/2022/01/11/cfd-protocol-explained/) about it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Settling a force-close scenario on layer 1 is in line with our original DLC protocol as described in [this blog post](https://comit.network/blog/2022/01/11/cfd-protocol-explained/). Since force-close scenarios are worst-case fallback scenarios it is feasible to handle them on chain rather than within the channel.
```

Not super happy about my wording - I'm trying to add some context to make it better understandable :)

Author: I've used some of this, thank you!

> It should still be relevant to what we are building today.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this sentence helps, maybe it can be incorporated into the sentence(s) above?

## Compatibility with other Lightning nodes

The point of building 10101 on Lightning is to become part of the Lightning Network.
We are excited to cater to its large and constantly growing userbase.
To this end, it is very important for us to build a Lightning wallet which is compatible with the rest of the network.

> Our modifications to `rust-lightning` should just extend the capabilities of the 10101 Lightning node, without compromising its ability to route payments to and from any other node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our modifications to `rust-lightning` extends the capabilities of the 10101 Lightning node, without compromising its ability to route payments to and from any other node.
```

> As such, the 10101 wallet will only be able to do CFD trading with compatible nodes, but it should be able to pay for your coffee at your favourite cafe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As such, the 10101 wallet will only be able to do CFD trading with compatible nodes, but will be able to pay for your coffee at your favourite cafe.
```

> ## Reduced scope for the tournament

Reviewer: Instead of formulating this negatively we could turn it into a positive statement like.

```suggestion
## Future work beyond the Legends of Lightning Tournament
```

Author: Much better, thanks!

Our goal for the tournament is to demonstrate that what we are building is possible and extremely cool.
Whilst we would love to ship flawless Lightning CFD trading to your phone in less than 2 months, we have decided to cut some corners in the interest of time:

- Our changes to `rust-lightning` do not need to be polished for the purpose of upstreaming.
  We are taking these weeks as an opportunity to better understand the problem space, but we are building fast.

>   The code might not be reused in the future, but the ideas surely will.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The code might not be reused in the future, but the concept surely will.
```

  If you're curious, you can follow the status of our `rust-lightning` fork [here](https://github.com/itchysats/rust-lightning/).
- We will build ephemeral CFDs.
  As previously mentioned, CFDs are inherently perpetual, but this would complicate matters considerably for little benefit for the purpose of the tournament.

>   We know how to build this, but it would take too much time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  We know how to build perpetuals, but it would take too much time.
```

- We will not solve the problem of dual-funded channels yet.
  This is already being [worked on by the community](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/851) and it is out of scope.
  There are ways to mitigate this problem (trusting your counterparty, using [submarine swaps](https://docs.lightning.engineering/the-lightning-network/multihop-payments/understanding-submarine-swaps)) and for the tournament we will not spend too much time on this.
- Multi-hop custom outputs (DLCs, CFDs) are not supported.

>   Given what we said about the Lightning library not even knowing how to spend the custom output directly, it may not even make sense to support multiple hops for these types of outputs.

Reviewer 2: I don't really understand this sentence - given that it is the last sentence and might need more context, maybe just change / remove / reduce it.I would either keep it more high-level or add more context so one can understand what is meant :)
